isn't it easy now  to say that Gary yorovsky is just a  minor footnote  in the history of the vegan movement  isn't that easy to say  in the year 2022 I used to know people  who would with no irony and with real  sincerity passion and conviction  refer to and talk about Kerry arovsky  as of the Martin Luther King  of the vegan movement their assumption  was that this was a man of tremendous  power and influence who was going to go  on to be even more powerful even more  influential in the years to come that  you know whatever significance or  notoriety you might have now appearing  on the TV news and so on just wait just  watch just wait and I think you can so  sorry I should say  if you're about 45 years old  it's quite easy for you to think back to  that time it doesn't seem like that long  ago it might be some of you right now  might be already kind of nodding your  heads ruefully I think oh yes yes I  remember when people look to yorovsky  and thought of him as the Martin Luther  King Jr of the vegan movie okay I got I  got fan mail from someone today who's uh  an 18 year old viewer of this Channel  and he was talking about how advice I'd  given when he was 17 changed his life  and how he now sees it differently at  age 18. okay what do you think Gary  orofsky means to him you know like so so  five years ago  now think about the world  from his perspective there were some  people in the movement today for whom  it's unimaginable and unfathomable and  they're looking back at Gary oropsy like  if they now hear about the echo of his  his form or fame and importance what do  you mean wasn't it always obvious that  this guy was nothing more than a minor  footnote in the history of veganism  who is and who is not a minor footnote  it's obvious in retrospect later when  history is written and it becomes  increasingly difficult to  sympathetically and analytically put  yourself back in that perspective  earlier period of time I've always been  challenged on this and  I think it's fair to say this is still  attention with my audience after all  these years the audience I have today  some of whom are 18 years old and just  started watching recently some of you  have been here for five years eight  years whatever the case maybe I think  that there is attention with my audience  whether it is spoken or unspoken that  they are so often frustrated with me  because they demand to know  why are you even bothering to criticize  freely the banana girl  why are you even bothering to criticize  durian Ryder  right it's just looking at another one  now uh healthy crazy cool you know any  of these did I get it wrong  you know why why would you even bother  to criticize these people  who are nothing more than a minor  footnote and there's your veganism as  opposed to  the people who are self-evidently of  such great importance now this is why  I'm making the video this is exactly  what I want to question this is what I  want this kind of claim that some of us  make consciously and intentionally you  know in the context of a debate or  something but a lot of us are just  unthinkingly kind of leaning on in our  own internal monologue we treat it as  something uh self-evident that we know  that's well established who is a minor  footnote and who is a who is a major  character  um as this history still unfolds  um  okay so you might think it's obvious  that uh Gary francione  is a much more important person  than freely the banana girl that's  really the banana girl always was doomed  to be a minor footnote in the history of  vegan movement whereas Gary francione is  of tremendous  Epoch making Imports is let me ask you  is Gary francione  the Martin Luther King Jr of 21st  century veganism is he it's because his  career is now over now we can write the  history of that looking back I know he's  not deceased yet but he is well and  truly uh retired he's out of the game is  he is that is that his importance uh I  want to talk about the history of  veganism in two very simple phases  the period from 1970 to the year 2000  and the period from the year 2000 to the  year 2030.  there's a very big difference between  these two periods of time and the  difference is what you see right here  the internet YouTube  how important was Gary francione  how important was Gary orofsky I've got  to ask I've got to drop a lot of more  names here how important was Wayne seong  Right and again some of you are too  young to remember there was a time when  I came out and criticized  you know Wayne seong and other vegans  were just shocked they were just  astonished and what they had to say to  me not in exactly these words was don't  you realize  this man  is the Martin Luther King Jr of our  movement this is the great leader we all  have to follow this is the guy carrying  the flag that's going to bring the  movement forward now  you know so today in retrospect  it's very easy to say oh couldn't you  always see the red flags couldn't you  always see that something was wrong  couldn't you always see that he was the  wrong uh guy to follow no no I could  again if you're 40 years old  did you did you see what was wrong with  Wayne song did you see what was wrong  with Gary Roski or were you one of the  people  who was giving the most  charitable interpretation possible  when Gary yorovsky  screamed incoherently on camera and  seemed completely insane on any number  of issues including the war between  Israel and Palestine this kind of thing  things had nothing to do with veganism  where these incoherent breakdowns were  you one of the people who was  rationalizing that and making excuses  for that in your head because he was  supposed to be our great leader if you  were imagining he was going to become in  future the uh you know the Martin Luther  King Jr of our upper movement and by the  way Martin Luther King Jr had his own  sins that were swept under the rug and  ignored by his followers during his  lifetime he was glorified and had things  ignored and deleted you know  um  uh with Wayne seong  when he published anti-vegan  essays when he published essays  attacking veganism and saying that the  animal rights movement should have  nothing to do with veganism and they  should be separated and that he wants he  doesn't even want to be vegan he wants  to just be an animal rights person  attacking and revivalinga did you I knew  when I spoke to people who remained  followers of Wayne song in case you  didn't know he ended up dropping that  tactic after it sort of backfired for  him whatever I don't know what results  he was expecting but he didn't get uh  the results he was he was hoping for  though okay were you one of the people  who said well this is a red flag this  guy is some kind of Kook this guy is  crazy this guy doesn't know what he's  doing or doesn't know what he's talking  about this so we're not going to follow  or did you rationalize it make excuses  for it right so on and so forth when  Wayne seon  obviously and flagrantly lied  in claiming that nobody had ever gone to  jail uh by participating in his protests  in his days of action in their their  method of disruption as they call it et  cetera Etc we was he was lying about  that and at the same time asking for  donations to pay for lawyers to help get  people out of jail you know quote  unquote in jail I don't mean they were  literally in jail but people were facing  criminal charges and the possibility of  going to jail at the at the very same  time he's begging he's panhandling he's  fundraising on the base this is this  shows there's a serious problem with you  morally if not intellectually like this  shows this is somebody who's crazy you  know this is a bad leader it's not  somebody you want to be involved with  even in business I mean even this guy's  owning a company or something is this  guy you want to be in business with  right so my point is this when you're  actually living through this kind of  political history as it unfolds your  experience of the present your  interpretation of the president your  rationalization of the present the  excuses you make for people in the  present very often derived from a  definite notion you have of the future  of who that person is going to be in the  future their their significance in the  future all right  now as I say I've had to deal with this  both explicitly and implicitly in my  conversations with my audience I feel  sometimes it's an implicit tension why  would you bother criticizing freely the  banana girl  how many people  would know the name  Gary yorovsky  if he had not been featured and promoted  on freely's YouTube channel  to what extent was freely herself  personally responsible for creating the  cultural phenomenon which now seems  short-lived and minor but seemed  enormous at the time  of Gary orofsky again I've talked to  people who lived through it and you know  it it probably is possible for some  internet archaeologist to go and crunch  the numbers and try to figure out you  know the level of Fame he had achieved  before he uh collaborated with or was  was promoted by freely and the level of  the fame he achieved after to what  extent was it freely to what extent was  it his appearances in newspapers and  much later being interviewed by the  Nightly News and that kind of thing but  you know everyone who lived through it  they will all say open you know oh yeah  you know like freely really played a  part in making eurovsky into this uh  towering major figure okay how many  people would have ever heard the name  James Ashby  outside of Australia  if he hadn't been promoted on the  YouTube channel of really the botanic  girl now again someone could try to  Crunch the numbers some of these things  are qualitative some of them are  quantitative you know it's not easy to  say just how important she was as  opposed to James asked me appearing in a  newspaper article appearing on  television James asked me had become  known within Australia to some extent  but he was known as a um you know minor  curiosity in the news he was a young man  who took a vow of silence as I recall  for a year correct me if I'm wrong right  to say this is a footnote in the history  of veganism would be a great  exaggeration freely played a huge part  she was an important Catalyst in taking  this  you know a minor news story it's not  front page news I was page six or page  12 or whatever this minor news story and  then turning this guy into a champion  for a major advocate for a major figure  in the vegan movement now I am not  saying this to  insult you in my audience okay I know a  lot of you okay many of you at least had  a period of your life where you  unironically looked up to James aspie as  the future Martin Luther King Jr  of the vegan movement if not the present  Martin Luther King Jr okay a lot of you  had a period of your lives in which you  looked up to either Wayne seong or Gary  arovsky  or freely herself  or durian writer himself right in which  you with with no irony saw these people  not in a detached skeptical nihilistic  way analyzing  who are you where do you come from what  have you accomplished what are your  aspirations to the Future how are you  going to accomplish those goals right  like that's a cool detached analysis you  looked at them and you analyzed who they  were  in the present in the context of the  fantasy you had about what they were  going to accomplish  in the future all right now look okay  obviously we could give thousands of  examples here but just to give one all  right  the people who really admired Patrice  Khan colors I believe that's how you  pronounce my name a lot of people who  say colors for her name but regardless  the most prominent founder and leader of  the black lives matter movement okay  um  did they analyze who she was where she  came from what her specific promises and  plans were for what she was going to  accomplish in the future and then  whether or not she'd accomplish them  right now that's what I did right with a  total Detachment I'll just just to be  honest about the order in which I did  this the first thing I looked at were  her plans for the future like okay so  this is a political activist and  political leader what do you want to  accomplish how are you going to  accomplish I looked at the Constitution  for her political organization right  which she was accepting donations for at  that time selling T-shirts for and so on  right okay so what's the definition of  what you're going to do and how you're  going to do it and what you refuse to do  I made a video about that at that time  I'm glad I did because now all that has  disappeared from the internet right now  that was the first thing I looked at  later  I looked at oh what's her education what  University degree does she have you know  if someone doesn't have University what  kind of job did they do in the past what  has she published what's her written  work what is her written work about what  are her political positions on a variety  of issues unrelated to like you know  unrelated to veganism or unrelated to  Black lives matter I'm related to police  brutality what can I know about this  person from what they say about politics  economic zone and you start to form a  kind of detached rational analysis of  who this person is what's good and  what's what's bad about them right  that's how I thought about James Ashby  and so I thought about Gary Roski for  for all these people right now what I'm  suggesting to you is  millions of people  Millions  looked at who Patrice Khan colors was  and they didn't ask themselves any of  those questions they didn't do any of  that investigating they didn't think  those things through rationally  they thought of who this person is now  and they thought of their bright future  but that future  is nothing but a figment of your  imagination  boy does it move a lot of money  boy that confidence  in a better future and we come out of a  culture that worships belief  that inculcates Blind Faith right as  soon as people are committed to  believing in that future there's this  whole deeply Christian discourse that  emerges of don't you want to believe  along with me don't you want to donate  money along with me don't you want to  March and chant and sing and dance in  the streets and hold a sign and don't  you want to be part of don't you want to  be on the right side of History don't  you want to support the next  Martin Luther King Jr okay there never  was any reason to think Patrice Khan  colors would be the next Martin Luther  King Jr there was no reason to think she  wanted to become the next Dr Martin  Luther King Jr that was you what she was  trying to do or what she was motivated  to do if you just looked at the life she  lived up to that time and what she was  doing at the time which was playing in  the future you could actually see what  kind of a person she was what kind of  agenda she had you you know I'm not  saying she's the worst person in the  world but you know you could see she was  completely the wrong person to play that  role that her admirers her followers  fantasized for because that's all it was  was a fantasy  shall I repeat that verbatim about  durian writer about freely about Gary  yorovsky frankly about Gary francione  about the most respectable of these  people let alone uh the least all right  so look I'm not getting a lot of  questions from the audience here  and you know Melissa is uh Melissa is  also a value member of my audience she  gets to ask her questions uh verbally  you know the question I am putting to  you tonight is  who is and what is going to be just a  minor footnote  in the history of the vegan movement and  what is really going to matter  right now look  I don't okay all right okay  up to a certain point people really  believed in James ask me it may sound  like a joke it's not  and in James Ashby's case you know maybe  the comparison to Martin Luther King Jr  is a bit of a stretch maybe I mean maybe  to come up with some other more kind of  hippie Hindu long hair spiritual gurus  uh motivational speakers you know maybe  people thought of him as the uh in a  slightly different category from Dr  Martin Luther King Jr  um  you know however you know they thought  this was a great and important leader  for veganism and they donated money they  didn't just believe in him you know they  voted with their wallets and they  created this International Superstar and  as you know he very much believed in his  own uh International super stardom okay  now James Ashby always a big part of his  story was that he was a drug addict okay  now in in my biased opinion he still is  a drug addict marijuana counts as a drug  people and  you know I think if you go back and look  at it with Detachment you can see this  is a guy who always cared about money  Fame Power Respect sex like he always  wanted to have this kind of rock star  lifestyle and now by the way you can go  watch my videos with analyze and take it  apart I mean eventually the facade kind  of broke down and he admitted what his  motivations were and what his methods  were and what he was trying to  accomplish and how he wanted to  accomplish it you know okay so now in  retrospect you can uh you can see this  all right  I think the easiest way to say you know  these sorry the areas Department the  clearest criteria for us to determine  who is and who is not a minor footnote  and there's Divine movement doesn't have  to do with their accomplishments doesn't  have to do with the size of the audience  it actually has to do with their  motivations  and with their moral and intellectual  character all right we know what James  aspie was trying to do right and we also  know in a sense why he could never do it  or why he could never accomplish more  than he did and that has everything to  do with his stupidity has everything to  do with his moral character uh so on and  so forth right now guys if you have been  watching this channel lately you have  seen the dramatic revelation of who  Aaron Janus really is and I don't get  any thrill out of doing it guys I do not  enjoy  exposing and criticizing Aaron Janus I  don't and I wouldn't blame you if you  thought if you wouldn't blame you for  having a mistaken impression did I take  a certain gleeful joy in this all right  but it's indeed with a certain kind of  dread and in a certain kind of relief  it's okay finally it's on the historical  record just how crazy and this person  really is and in as much as she is an  important leader in the vegan movement  her leader her leadership is dangerous  because she's so crazy so if you don't  know what I'm talking about there's a  YouTube video that's actually on one of  my other channels that is called the  politics of being Aaron Janus  you get the whole story bundled up  in one video there okay and look again  okay so when you're in the middle of it  when history is unfolding  people believed in the leadership of  their engines to what extent you want to  compare her to Martin Luther King Jr to  what extent you want to compare it to  Mahatma Gandhi you know because again  there was a spiritual component to this  right  um  it is now easy to say Aaron Janus is  just a minor footnote in the history of  the vegan movement why she got more  views on YouTube than I did so did James  Ashby so did freely right why because of  her intentions because of her moral and  intellectual character she'll she'll  never matter  she never could have mattered and in  retrospect it's even easy to see it and  feel like oh well she never did matter  this this never meant anything at the  time when you were living through it  the vast majority of people not me but  the vast majority of people they don't  analyze what she's saying now what she's  doing now or even what she's telling you  where plans are now like when she's  doing fundraising hey if you donate this  money to me here's what I'm gonna do  with it they don't analyze it in that  way they look at her now and think about  the glory of what she's going to  accomplish in the future it's her future  accomplishments that give her the  appearance of greatness that give her  this long Shadow right I would say again  it's not just Aaron it's all of these  figures they seem to loom so large  in the vegan movement and now we can say  they didn't really matter at all and now  it seems difficult to even imagine that  they were ever so important to you again  freely was tremendous important people  during murder was been many many videos  talking about that I don't trivialize it  I'm pointing to a problem here  as with all these things my bottom line  is to talk about what you are going to  do with the next five years of your life  starting today  the problem I'm pointing to here is a  problem in uh the perception of reality  how we think and feel about politics and  how we you know how we decide well what  it is we're going to do next and then  get it to bed in the morning and go and  do it ultimately now I said earlier I  want to talk about two periods the  history of the vegan movement  um  1970 to 2000 and then 2000 to 2030.  in an earlier video it's maybe just two  videos before this I was criticizing the  YouTuber rationality rules  and I said with total conviction and no  vacillating and no exceptions that the  philosophy of Jeremy Bentham is  completely trivial to veganism now in  the 21st century in the idiom of this  video we can say look the philosophy of  Jeremy Bentham is a footnote in the  history of the vegan movement it's a if  there's some mild curiosity about it but  I was warning I'm saying look a small  number of nerds in these internet forums  like Discord to them Jeremy Bentham is a  big deal but let's really face up to it  Jeremy Bentham has not been is not now  and never will be important for the  vegan movement he is a minor footnote  and there's him okay now  a claim like that is neither going to be  true nor false  you got to calibrate it  it's going to be true compared to  something else right  between the year 1970 in the year 2000.  which was more important for the  development of veganism  the philosophy of Jeremy Bentham  or the Rastafarian religion  if you think I'm joking I'm not I'm dead  serious between 1970 and the year 2000  the Rastafarian religion influenced  millions and millions of people yes a  lot of it through music yes a lot of it  through concerts if Jeremy Bentham could  have concerts with millions of people  singing his philosophy you think he  wouldn't do it you know I mean like  don't look down on rastafarianism  because most people heard about the  religion through music I mean some  people uh through reading a book or  something but sure you know music was a  huge part of how we're asked the  ferianism became so influential  rastafarianism resulted in millions of  people either becoming vegetarian or  trying to be vegetarian we all know  there's a failure rate in these things  both for vegetarianism and veganism  their idiom was to talk about  vegetarianism and righteousness not  veganism but as you can imagine that  created a basis for and an interest in  veganism them throughout black American  culture black British culture black  Caribbean culture to some extent and  yeah millions and millions of white  people listen to the Rastafarian music  too in case you don't know this is  enormously influential okay so now  already with just this one example right  and think about the years  1970 to 2000.  in that span of time what was more  influential in the development of  veganism  Jeremy Bentham is this tiny footnote  and actually rastafarianism is something  that we have to take seriously okay  there was in the same period of time  1970 2000 a massive level of public  interest in the United States of America  and Western Europe and Australia a  massive level of public interest in the  philosophy of Hinduism  I don't even have to specify which  philosophy within Hinduism let's just  broadly say in a category the philosophy  of Hinduism Hinduism doesn't preach  veganism rastafarianism also doesn't  preach very veganism in case you didn't  know Jeremy Bentham doesn't preach  veganism he doesn't Okay such a joke  trying to make a big deal out of  Jeremiah any one of these any one of  these kind of uh you know philosophers  like kind of matters in a Parlor Room  you gotta keep this in mind okay all  right  there is one of my rivals here on  YouTube uh Hitomi muchuzuki  you know  Hitomi as a unique historical individual  to what extent was her interest in  veganism  shaped by the culture  that emerged and persisted from 1970  through the year 2000 the cultural  fascination with Hinduism cultural  fascination with rastafarianism a number  of other African-American new religious  movements like the five percenter  movement five percent of movement if it  was me  if you don't know who the Five  Percenters are have you heard of the  Wu-Tang Clan almost I mean every Wu-Tang  album if not every song has five percent  or uh preaching in it this very peculiar  small new religious movement of the  United States of America right I I  didn't convert I didn't become a member  of the faith or anything but I heard  those lyrics and I heard them a hundred  times yeah it influences you right  um uh other eccentric new religious  movements the United States like Black  Hebrew Israelites right if we take those  together in one category along with  rastafarianism all of a sudden I was oh  well you know African-Americans have  decades and Decades of of interest in  vegetarianism ethical vegetarianism that  are different and you know  um you guys probably with a Seventh-Day  Adventists  all right  a unique individual like Hitomi watuzuki  emerges out of the cultural stew of  these important influences and in saying  they're important I of course I don't  mean to say that they're good of course  they don't mean to say that they're good  or they're intelligent or or what have  you we can sit here and talk about you  know the importance of Adolf Hitler and  how much influence he had or something  it's not praising him it's just  acknowledging  historically that you know who's had  more influence in the history of the  world Jeremy Bentham or Adolf Hitler I  mean I'm sorry to break it to you but  the philosophy Adolf Hitler is complete  horseshit it's completely insane uh  apart I mean apart from calling it evil  it's stupid it's stupid and it's crazy  well okay guess what Jeremy Bentham you  know didn't didn't add up to much his  influence in the history of the world  especially not talking about  1970 through uh the year 2000. so these  these kinds of claims and so I'm saying  this to someone  who's just published a book talking  about vegan politics talking about the  philosophy  of veganism talking about putting two  together now vegan political philosophy  I'm totally aware that many of my  colleagues will be ready to snub me and  say that I'm nothing  but a minor footnote in the history of  veganism I want to talk about intention  I want to talk about moral character and  an intellectual substance okay  I am aware that Earthling Ed and his  book is going to sell more copies than  my book I am aware that Dr greger's how  not to die sold more copies whatever all  right  but I am really seriously asking the  question  of whether or not we are going to look  back at Dr Greger the same way that  today we already look back at Gary  orofsky and we shrug and say um  he was just a minor footnote  in the history of the vegan movement  okay  is Dr Greger going to be the Martin  Luther King Jr  of veganism like you look at what he's  done in the past you look at who he is  the background he comes from you look at  what he's doing right now you look at  his Constitution so to speak how he  defines the multi-million dollar  organization he's the head of I've had  videos in the past talking about the  budget just just how much money they've  got right  and then you ask where is he going from  here what is he going to do with these  millions of dollars in this famous  accomplished of a famous attained  whatever you want to say right where  does it go from here now I am not  predicting that his career is going to  end the way Aaron Janice's career ended  I'm not predicting it's going to end the  way James asked for his career ended  either I'm not predicting it's going to  end the way during writer's career ended  okay I I think that simply he is a burnt  match that the potential he had  it has burnt out it has come and gone  and that what I'm expecting in the next  five years what I'm expecting Dr Greger  to accomplish in the next five years is  nothing  I think he's going to accomplish nothing  more than the perpetuation frankly of  his own  wealth all right  now why  has to do with intention  it has to do with  intellectual and moral character  when I look at  Gary francione  okay  we do not have a formal system of  aristocracy  in the United States and Canada we do  not call people Duke  duchess  Baron VI count  we don't use those words all right  but in our social hierarchy in our  economic hierarchy  it's very plain to see that Gary  francione came into this game  as an aristocrat  at a very high level  all right think about the profession he  had  as as a lawyer  think about the position he attained as  a professor of law  and I have had several vegan activists  complain to me you know these are  complaints so they may not be entirely  factual but they complain that he's  actually enormously wealthy and they  know this from having worked with him  and talked to them they're not so far  with movement and so on and that he's  not really doing anything for the future  of the movement given his tremendous  wealth and power now look  what I say back that if you're if you're  confused about how wealthy is I don't  even know if his parents are wealthy  before him or his grandmother's I don't  know if he has inherited wealth or not  um just look up how much a professor at  his level makes per year it's just with  no other factors of course he's wealth  of course all my professors were wealth  I didn't have any poor professors here  in Canada I had professors making over a  hundred thousand dollars a year I don't  know about you how about professors of  law professors in the Department of Law  you know you can look it up I don't know  I can't say this for every single  University in the world at my University  I could look up exactly how much money  the professors made I've made other  videos talking about that these and now  it's not the only way to make money it's  probably not its only source of income  um I I don't mean anything bad by that  but you know just say uh that we have no  reason to assume that that's his only  source of income though this is a  tremendously wealthy tremendously  powerful person and thus it is  completely unsurprising  that he was able to attain a certain  level of respect  power and influence in the vegan  movement now I'm just being real here  I am not old enough to remember a time  in which people looked at Gary francione  the way I can remember them looking at  Gary rovsky I cannot remember I just  wasn't alive I wasn't there so long ago  so he was he was he was present he was  in the room when peda was founded he  goes way back everything he's a  generation earlier right but if you knew  someone from regeneration they would be  able to remember a time  when vegans looked up to and looked at  Gary francione as quite possibly the Dr  Martin Luther King Jr of the vegan  movement where there was that hope there  was that aspiration oh here's this guy  so again it depends what what stage he's  at uh whether you know as a lawyer as a  professor and so on obviously is his  power and wealth and fame increase but  here's this guy who's completely  committed long term to the future of the  vegan movement who starts in such an  extraordinary position of of power and  influence now so again this is someone  who's now retired he's not deceased but  he's he's published his last book as as  he explained it himself if he goes on to  publish another book I'm happy for him  but he said this was his final statement  about the big movement and so on when he  published that book and I've I've  reviewed the book  his final statement on the political  philosophy of veganism  you can draw your own conclusions  at any point during that long career  you could have asked of Gary francione  in your own mind  what are you going to accomplish in the  next five years  the same question I'm asking today about  Dr Greger the same question I asked more  than five years ago about Gary urovsky  the same question I asked about Wayne  seong a single question asked in in  really what it was like an eight-year  mission to really survey analyze  investigate and understand what was  going on in the vegan movement in  Mission that ultimately concludes with  the publication of my book it's only 100  page book you can read it pretty quickly  it's it's short but hard hitting  um you know veganism future of an  illusion this is this is the book that  gathers together all this stuff I  learned from all these years  investigation right  I was looking at these people and you  know some when I was talking to them  face to face I asked them directly where  are you going to be five years from now  what do you want to have accomplished  five years ago what are you going to do  to  to get there so sometimes they did talk  to them directly and when I wasn't  talking to them directly when I was  asking you guys in the audience I was  asking you to consider yourself and ask  the same question but I was asking about  them look look guys what do you where do  you really think this Gary orofsky Act  is going this guy who's crazy and I had  this clip I played with him again again  where he was talking about getting guns  and shooting people and using violence  we had these other Clips we were saying  crazy things about Palestinians and  Israelis right you had all these signs  of how insane he was in the role of  violence in his in his thinking  and I'm asking you the question okay so  where do you think this is heading right  and various suggestions that it was  nowhere good and I was right so you know  you know the story of the story ends for  you  um  okay  these were people given extraordinary  opportunities extraordinary power  extraordinary influence and look to some  extent they earned it too to some extent  they had Talent you know I'm not saying  it was given to them  uh for no reason at all but these were  people who had opportunities that  probably nobody in this audience will  ever have and uh a lot of other people  might have wanted to have those  opportunities a lot of other people  would have wanted to be on stage or to  have that interview with that uh  television station and speak to the news  or have that position of leadership or  have that frankly money ultimately a lot  of this comes down to donations given to  vegan organizations  um  so on and so forth okay  given the extraordinary power wealth  Fame  respect influence held by  Gary orofsky why did he accomplish so  little in the last five years of his  career given the extraordinary wealth  power Fame influence why did Gary  francione accomplish a little  why did Earthling Ed  accomplish so little  in the last five years  and what do you think he's going to  accomplish in the next five years  why did Joey karbstrong  accomplish so little  in the last five years  and what do you seriously think  he's going to accomplish in the next  five years  Paul Bashir if you don't recognize the  name Paul Bashir the founder and leader  of anonymous to the voiceless  and we've all seen the numbers for how  much money he was given he had this big  Financial Scandal embarrassment of  riches because he did receive a lot of  money and donations for some of these  guys we don't know how much money they  got okay why did he accomplish  so little in the last five years and  what do you think  he's going to accomplish in the next  five years it comes down to  intellectual character  moral character and intentions  because when you look back in retrospect  very often you'll say oh but these  people weren't really lying to me James  asked me never really promised he was  going to accomplish anything did he it's  not like he let me down like what what  was it that James asked me ever promised  you what was it that freely or during  writer I promise what was it these  people were supposed to accomplish  that they didn't  all right and now beyond that the real  question is in your mind and in your  heart what was it you felt they should  have accomplished but they couldn't  because they lacked the necessary  intellectual character they lacked the  necessary moral character  and they didn't even have  good intentions  the most important lesson for you to  learn  from the very recent history of the  black lives matter movement  is that if the people in charge  the leaders  if the people who have executive power  are of the wrong intellectual character  or of the wrong moral character  if they have the wrong intentions  does not matter  how much money you pour on them  it does not matter how many interviews  with mainstream TV channels you manage  to Usher them into you managed to  arrange for them  does not matter how many books you  publish mainstream Publishers how much  promotion you give them and it does not  even matter  how many thousands or how many millions  of people march in the streets scream or  chant their name hold up signs  no matter how much support they get  economically politically in all of these  ways no matter how much money Fame power  respect and sex they get no matter how  much is poured onto them or poured into  their organization  they will accomplish nothing  because an institution is nothing more  than the length and Shadow of just one  man  the defects of moral an intellectual  character the defects in the plans in  the stated intentions the articulated  goals and the Constitutions of these  organizations they doom them  from the first  no matter how bright they may burn on  social media no matter how huge an  audience they may command for a short  time or for a long time  as Gary yorovski once did as freely once  did and so on right they are doomed  to be remembered as nothing more  than footnotes  in the history of the vegan movement